# Papers for Analysis: Cognitive Enhancement EEG BCI Balance Older Adults Gamified

Total: 20 papers

### P1: Motor priming in virtual reality can augment motor-imagery training efficacy in ...
**2016** | openalex | Citations: 132
No abstract

### P2: Engagement in HCI
**2018** | openalex | Citations: 237
Engaging users is a priority for designers of products and services of every kind. The need to understand users’ experiences has motivated a focus on user engagement across computer science. However, to date, there has been limited review of how Human--Computer Interaction and computer science resea...

### P3: On Shooting Stars
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 60
Inactivity and a lack of engagement with exercise is a pressing health problem in the United States and beyond. Immersive Virtual Reality (iVR) is a promising medium to motivate users through engaging virtual environments. Currently, modern iVR lacks a comparative analysis between research and consu...

### P4: ADHD and Technology Research – Investigated by Neurodivergent Readers
**2022** | openalex | Citations: 110
Technology research for neurodivergent conditions is largely shaped by research aims which privilege neuro-normative outcomes. As such, there is an epistemic imbalance in meaning making about these technologies. We conducted a critical literature review of technologies designed for people with ADHD,...

### P5: A framework and immersive serious game for mild cognitive impairment
**2021** | openalex | Citations: 55
No abstract

### P6: AI-Driven Stroke Rehabilitation Systems and Assessment: A Systematic Review
**2022** | openalex | Citations: 58
Post-stroke therapy restores lost skills. Traditionally, patients are supported by skilled therapists who monitor their progress and evaluate the program's effectiveness. Due to a shortage of qualified therapists, rehabilitation facilities are both expensive and inadequate. Furthermore, evaluations ...

### P7: Artificial Intelligence–Driven Serious Games in Health Care: Scoping Review
**2022** | openalex | Citations: 29
Background Artificial intelligence (AI)–driven serious games have been used in health care to offer a customizable and immersive experience. Summarizing the features of the current AI-driven serious games is very important to explore how they have been developed and used and their current state to p...

### P8: Flexible Virtual Reality System for Neurorehabilitation and Quality of Life Impr...
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 38
As life expectancy is mostly increasing, the incidence of many neurological disorders is also constantly growing. For improving the physical functions affected by a neurological disorder, rehabilitation procedures are mandatory, and they must be performed regularly. Unfortunately, neurorehabilitatio...

### P9: Neurofeedback Training Based on Motor Imagery Strategies Increases EEG Complexit...
**2021** | openalex | Citations: 16
Neurofeedback training (NFT) has shown promising results in recent years as a tool to address the effects of age-related cognitive decline in the elderly. Since previous studies have linked reduced complexity of electroencephalography (EEG) signal to the process of cognitive decline, we propose the ...

### P10: Managing ADHD Symptoms in Children Through the Use of Various Technology-Driven ...
**2025** | openalex | Citations: 12
Children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) frequently experience impairments in a range of abilities. Due to their poor attention and concentration, they find it challenging to stay focused when learning. They need help to retain the directions given by teachers and are very anima...

### P11: Separability of motor imagery of the self from interpretation of motor intention...
**2017** | openalex | Citations: 17
The observed pattern of results show that Self and Third Person MI use distinct electrophysiological mechanisms detectable at the scalp (and ECOG) at the single trial level, with separable levels of involvement of the mirror neuron system in different regions. These observations provide a promising ...

### P12: Designing for Care Ecosystems: a Literature Review of Technologies for Children ...
**2022** | openalex | Citations: 31
This paper presents a systematic review of HCI literature focusing on children with ADHD, the prevailing mental health diagnosis in children. Its aim is to (i) chart the state-of-the-art in this domain (e.g. methods used), (ii) identify the ways the HCI community has addressed the needs of children ...

### P13: Improving the Brain-Computer Interface Learning Process with Gamification in Mot...
**2022** | openalex | Citations: 8
Brain-computer-interface-based motor imagery (MI-BCI), a control method for transferring the imagination of motor behavior to computer-based commands, could positively impact neural functions. With the safety guaranteed by non-invasive BCI devices, this method has the potential to enhance rehabilita...

### P14: Interactions with virtual therapists during motor rehabilitation in immersive vi...
**2024** | openalex | Citations: 11
Introduction: Virtual Reality applications for rehabilitation are increasing in popularity. In traditional as well as virtual rehabilitation, the guidance of an occupational therapist through physical and verbal interaction is often required. Several studies have attempted to implement a virtual the...

### P15: Brain-computer interfaces in digital mindfulness training for metacognitive, emo...
**2023** | openalex | Citations: 7
Brain–Computer Interfaces (BCIs) are specialized systems that allow users to control computer applications using their brain waves. With the arrival of consumer-grade electroencephalography (EEG) equipment, brain-controlled systems began to find fertile ground in mental training. One particular area...

### P16: Head-Mounted Displays for Upper Limb Stroke Rehabilitation: A Scoping Review
**2023** | openalex | Citations: 9
Upper extremity (UE) paresis is one of the most frequent and disabling clinical consequences after stroke. Head-Mounted Displays (HMDs) are wearable virtual reality devices that seem effective in promoting the recovery of functional abilities by increasing adherence levels in this population. This s...

### P17: Well-Being Technologies and Positive Psychology Strategies for Training Metacogn...
**2024** | openalex | Citations: 17
The holistic growth and psychological well-being of people with special needs and disabilities remain high on the priority agenda for sustainable and inclusive education. Digital well-being technologies and especially “smart technologies”, are ready to revolutionize mental health interventions by me...

### P18: Biosignal-integrated robotic systems with emerging trends in visual interfaces: ...
**2024** | openalex | Citations: 9
Human–machine interfaces (HMI) are currently a trendy and rapidly expanding area of research. Interestingly, the human user does not readily observe the interface between humans and machines. Instead, interactions between the machine and electrical signals from the user's body are obscured by comple...

### P19: Cognitive Task Domain Influences Cognitive-Motor Interference during Large-Magni...
**2023** | openalex | Citations: 7
Reactive balance is postulated to be attentionally demanding, although it has been underexamined in dual-tasking (DT) conditions. Further, DT studies have mainly included only one cognitive task, leaving it unknown how different cognitive domains contribute to reactive balance. This study examined h...

### P20: Train vs. Play: Evaluating the Effects of Gamified and Non-Gamified Wheelchair S...
**2023** | openalex | Citations: 3
This study compares the influence of a gamified and a non-gamified virtual reality (VR) environment on wheelchair skills training. In specific, the study explores the integration of gamification elements and their influence on wheelchair driving performance in VR-based training. Twenty-two non-disab...

