# Papers for Analysis: brain computer interface older adults rehabilitation

Total: 59 papers

### P1: Virtual reality interface devices in the reorganization of neural networks in th...
**2014** | openalex | Citations: 103
Two key characteristics of all virtual reality applications are interaction and immersion. Systemic interaction is achieved through a variety of multisensory channels (hearing, sight, touch, and smell), permitting the user to interact with the virtual world in real time. Immersion is the degree to w...

### P2: Wearable Brain–Computer Interface Instrumentation for Robot-Based Rehabilitation...
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 91
An instrument for remote control of the robot by wearable brain-computer interface (BCI) is proposed for rehabilitating children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Augmented reality (AR) glasses generate flickering stimuli, and a single-channel electroencephalographic BCI detects ...

### P3: Dementia prevention, intervention, and care: 2020 report of the Lancet Commissio...
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 9322
No abstract

### P4: Robotic Autism Rehabilitation by Wearable Brain-Computer Interface and Augmented...
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 20
An instrument based on the integration of Brain Computer Interface (BCI) and Augmented Reality (AR) is proposed for robotic autism rehabilitation. Flickering stimuli at fixed frequencies appear on the display of Augmented Reality (AR) glasses. When the user focuses on one of the stimuli a Steady Sta...

### P5: Combining Mental Training and Physical Training With Goal-Oriented Protocols in ...
**2018** | openalex | Citations: 20
Stroke is one of the leading causes of permanent disability in adults. The literature suggests that rehabilitation is key to early motor recovery. However, conventional therapy is labor and cost intensive. Robotic and functional electrical stimulation (FES) devices can provide a high dose of repetit...

### P6: A survey of socially interactive robots
**2003** | openalex | Citations: 3023
No abstract

### P7: The Internet of Things for Health Care: A Comprehensive Survey
**2015** | openalex | Citations: 2890
The Internet of Things (IoT) makes smart objects the ultimate building blocks in the development of cyber-physical smart pervasive frameworks. The IoT has a variety of application domains, including health care. The IoT revolution is redesigning modern health care with promising technological, econo...

### P8: Older Adults' Use of Technology
**2013** | openalex | Citations: 31
No AccessPerspectives on GerontologyArticle1 May 2013Older Adults' Use of Technology Sarah E. Wallace, Christin Graham, and Amy Saraceno Sarah E. Wallace Department of Speech-Language Pathology, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, PA Google Scholar , Christin Graham Department of Speech-Language Pathol...

### P9: Enhancing Our Lives with Immersive Virtual Reality
**2016** | openalex | Citations: 1554
OPINION article Front. Robot. AI, 19 December 2016Sec. Virtual Environments Volume 3 - 2016 | https://doi.org/10.3389/frobt.2016.00074

### P10: Augmented visual, auditory, haptic, and multimodal feedback in motor learning: A...
**2012** | openalex | Citations: 1238
No abstract

### P11: Virtual reality for stroke rehabilitation
**2015** | openalex | Citations: 1141
We found evidence that the use of virtual reality and interactive video gaming was not more beneficial than conventional therapy approaches in improving upper limb function. Virtual reality may be beneficial in improving upper limb function and activities of daily living function when used as an adj...

### P12: Design, development, and use of conversational agents in rehabilitation for adul...
**2022** | openalex | Citations: 19
Objective: The objective of this review was to identify how conversational agents are designed and used in rehabilitation for adults with brain-related neurological conditions. Introduction: Adults with brain-related neurological conditions experience varied cognitive and functional challenges that ...

### P13: Motor rehabilitation using virtual reality
**2004** | openalex | Citations: 710
No abstract

### P14: Analysis of the Relationship Between Motor Imagery and Age-Related Fatigue for C...
**2022** | openalex | Citations: 11
Background The aging of the world population poses a major health challenge, and brain–computer interface (BCI) technology has the potential to provide assistance and rehabilitation for the elderly. Objectives This study aimed to investigate the electroencephalogram (EEG) characteristics during moto...

### P15: Low intensity transcranial electric stimulation: Safety, ethical, legal regulato...
**2017** | openalex | Citations: 1205
No abstract

### P16: Computerized Cognitive Training in Cognitively Healthy Older Adults: A Systemati...
**2014** | openalex | Citations: 896
CCT is modestly effective at improving cognitive performance in healthy older adults, but efficacy varies across cognitive domains and is largely determined by design choices. Unsupervised at-home training and training more than three times per week are specifically ineffective. Further research is ...

### P17: Speech and language therapy for aphasia following stroke
**2016** | openalex | Citations: 1085
Our review provides evidence of the effectiveness of SLT for people with aphasia following stroke in terms of improved functional communication, reading, writing, and expressive language compared with no therapy. There is some indication that therapy at high intensity, high dose or over a longer per...

### P18: Speech Characteristics of Patients with Parkinson’s Disease: I. Intensity, Pitch...
**1963** | openalex | Citations: 265
No AccessJournal of Speech and Hearing DisordersResearch Article1 Aug 1963Speech Characteristics of Patients with Parkinson's Disease: I. Intensity, Pitch, and Duration Gerald J. Canter Gerald J. Canter Google Scholar https://doi.org/10.1044/jshd.2803.221 SectionsAboutPDF ToolsAdd to favoritesDownlo...

### P19: State of the Evidence Traffic Lights 2019: Systematic Review of Interventions fo...
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 969
Abstract Purpose of Review Cerebral palsy is the most common physical disability of childhood, but the rate is falling, and severity is lessening. We conducted a systematic overview of best available evidence (2012–2019), appraising evidence using GRADE and the Evidence Alert Traffic Light System an...

### P20: AT THE INTERFACE: DYNAMIC INTERACTIONS OF EXPLICIT AND IMPLICIT LANGUAGE KNOWLED...
**2005** | openalex | Citations: 853
Peer Reviewed

### P21: Optimizing performance through intrinsic motivation and attention for learning: ...
**2016** | openalex | Citations: 1029
No abstract

### P22: Factors Associated With Virtual Reality Sickness in Head-Mounted Displays: A Sys...
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 614
The use of head-mounted displays (HMD) for virtual reality (VR) application-based purposes including therapy, rehabilitation, and training is increasing. Despite advancements in VR technologies, many users still experience sickness symptoms. VR sickness may be influenced by technological differences...

### P23: Sensorimotor training in virtual reality: A review
**2009** | openalex | Citations: 495
Recent experimental evidence suggests that rapid advancement of virtual reality (VR) technologies has great potential for the development of novel strategies for sensorimotor training in neurorehabilitation. We discuss what the adaptive and engaging virtual environments can provide for massive and i...

### P24: Wearable Health Devices in Health Care: Narrative Systematic Review
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 590
Background With the rise of mobile medicine, the development of new technologies such as smart sensing, and the popularization of personalized health concepts, the field of smart wearable devices has developed rapidly in recent years. Among them, medical wearable devices have become one of the most ...

### P25: An Overview of Serious Games
**2014** | openalex | Citations: 591
Serious games are growing rapidly as a gaming industry as well as a field of academic research. There are many surveys in the field of digital serious games; however, most surveys are specific to a particular area such as education or health. So far, there has been little work done to survey digital...

### P26: BCI for stroke rehabilitation: motor and beyond
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 392
Abstract Stroke is one of the leading causes of long-term disability among adults and contributes to major socio-economic burden globally. Stroke frequently results in multifaceted impairments including motor, cognitive and emotion deficits. In recent years, brain–computer interface (BCI)-based ther...

### P27: A Review on Lower Limb Rehabilitation Exoskeleton Robots
**2019** | openalex | Citations: 452
Abstract Lower limb rehabilitation exoskeleton robots integrate sensing, control, and other technologies and exhibit the characteristics of bionics, robotics, information and control science, medicine, and other interdisciplinary areas. In this review, the typical products and prototypes of lower li...

### P28: Diagnosis and management of spinal muscular atrophy: Part 1: Recommendations for...
**2017** | openalex | Citations: 957
No abstract

### P29: Biofeedback in rehabilitation
**2013** | openalex | Citations: 653
No abstract

### P30: The steady-state visual evoked potential in vision research: A review
**2015** | openalex | Citations: 1182
Periodic visual stimulation and analysis of the resulting steady-state visual evoked potentials were first introduced over 80 years ago as a means to study visual sensation and perception. From the first single-channel recording of responses to modulated light to the present use of sophisticated dig...

### P31: Rehabilitation with brain-computer interface and upper limb motor function in is...
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Upper limb motor dysfunction is a major problem in the rehabilitation of patients with stroke. Brain-computer interface (BCI) is a kind of communication system that converts the "ideas" in the brain into instructions and has been used in stroke rehabilitation. This study aimed to investigate the eff...

### P32: Motor imagery-based brain-computer interface rehabilitation programs enhance upp...
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
The most challenging aspect of rehabilitation is the repurposing of residual functional plasticity in stroke patients. To achieve this, numerous plasticity-based clinical rehabilitation programs have been developed. This study aimed to investigate the effects of motor imagery (MI)-based brain-comput...

### P33: Efficacy of brain-computer interface training with motor imagery-contingent feed...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Brain-computer interface (BCI) technology can enhance neural plasticity and motor recovery in persons with stroke. However, the effects of BCI training with motor imagery (MI)-contingent feedback versus MI-independent feedback remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether the contingent co...

### P34: A single-center, assessor-blinded, randomized controlled clinical trial to test ...
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
In the United States, there are over seven million stroke survivors, with many facing gait impairments due to foot drop. This restricts their community ambulation and hinders functional independence, leading to several long-term health complications. Despite the best available physical therapy, gait...

### P35: IpsiHand Brain-Computer Interface Therapy Induces Broad Upper Extremity Motor Re...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Chronic hemiparetic stroke patients have very limited benefits from current therapies. Brain-computer interface (BCI) engaging the unaffected hemisphere has emerged as a promising novel therapeutic approach for chronic stroke rehabilitation.

### P36: Brain-computer interface robotics for hand rehabilitation after stroke: a system...
**2021** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Hand rehabilitation is core to helping stroke survivors regain activities of daily living. Recent studies have suggested that the use of electroencephalography-based brain-computer interfaces (BCI) can promote this process. Here, we report the first systematic examination of the literature on the us...

### P37: A Novel Transfer Learning-Based Hybrid EEG-fNIRS Brain-Computer Interface for In...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Motor imagery (MI)-based neurorehabilitation shows promise for intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) recovery, yet conventional unimodal brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) face critical limitations in cross-subject generalization. This study presents a multimodal electroencephalography (EEG)-functional near-...

### P38: An Accurate and Rapidly Calibrating Speech Neuroprosthesis.
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Brain-computer interfaces can enable communication for people with paralysis by transforming cortical activity associated with attempted speech into text on a computer screen. Communication with brain-computer interfaces has been restricted by extensive training requirements and limited accuracy.

### P39: Longevity of a Brain-Computer Interface for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
The durability of communication with the use of brain-computer interfaces in persons with progressive neurodegenerative disease has not been extensively examined. We report on 7 years of independent at-home use of an implanted brain-computer interface for communication by a person with advanced amyo...

### P40: Brain-actuated functional electrical stimulation elicits lasting arm motor recov...
**2018** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Brain-computer interfaces (BCI) are used in stroke rehabilitation to translate brain signals into intended movements of the paralyzed limb. However, the efficacy and mechanisms of BCI-based therapies remain unclear. Here we show that BCI coupled to functional electrical stimulation (FES) elicits sig...

### P41: Electroencephalography-Based Brain-Machine Interfaces in Older Adults: A Literat...
**2023** | pubmed | Citations: ?
The aging process is a multifaceted phenomenon that affects cognitive-affective and physical functioning as well as interactions with the environment. Although subjective cognitive decline may be part of normal aging, negative changes objectified as cognitive impairment are present in neurocognitive...

### P42: Brain-Computer Interface-controlled Upper Limb Robotic System for Enhancing Dail...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
This study introduces a Brain-Computer Interface (BCI)-controlled upper limb assistive robot for post-stroke rehabilitation. The system utilizes electroencephalogram (EEG) and electrooculogram (EOG) signals to help users assist upper limb function in everyday tasks while interacting with a robotic h...

### P43: Hybrid Brain Computer Interface-Based Rehabilitation Addressing Post-Stroke Mala...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Hybrid Brain-Computer Interfaces (hBCI) integrate brain and muscle signals to enhance motor rehabilitation of stroke survivors, by closing the loop between the lesioned brain and the paretic limb. To date, little attention has been devoted to their potential efficacy in managing the maladaptive move...

### P44: Hybrid Brain-Computer Interface Controlled Soft Robotic Glove for Stroke Rehabil...
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Soft robotic glove controlled by a brain-computer interface (BCI) have demonstrated effectiveness in hand rehabilitation for stroke patients. Current systems rely on static visual representations for patients to perform motor imagination (MI) tasks, resulting in lower BCI performance. Therefore, thi...

### P45: Associative brain-computer interface training increases wrist extensor corticosp...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
In a recently developed associative rehabilitative brain-computer interface (BCI) system, electroencephalography (EEG) is used to identify the most active phase of the motor cortex during attempted movement and deliver precisely timed peripheral stimulation during training. This approach has been de...

### P46: Brain computer interfaces for cognitive enhancement in older people - challenges...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Brain-computer interface (BCI) offers promising solutions to cognitive enhancement in older people. Despite the clear progress received, there is limited evidence of BCI implementation for rehabilitation. This systematic review addresses BCI applications and challenges in the standard practice of EE...

### P47: Integrating Brain-Computer Interface Systems into Occupational Therapy for Enhan...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
No abstract

### P48: Neuroplasticity changes in cortical activity, grey matter, and white matter of s...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
No abstract

### P49: Effects of dual-task mode brain-computer interface based on motor imagery and vi...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Brain-computer interface (BCI) has been shown to be beneficial in improving lower limb motility in stroke, but their effectiveness on balance and attention is unclear. In addition, current BCIs are mostly in single-task mode. The BCI system used in this study was based on a dual-task model of motor ...

### P50: Effects and neural mechanisms of a brain-computer interface-controlled soft robo...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
The brain-computer interface-based soft robotic glove (BCI-SRG) holds promise for upper limb rehabilitation in subacute stroke patients, yet its efficacy and neural mechanisms are unclear. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effects and neural mechanisms of BCI-SRGs by functional near-in...

### P51: Efficacy of kinesthetic motor imagery based brain computer interface combined wi...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
This study investigates whether the combined effect of kinesthetic motor imagery-based brain computer interface (KI-BCI) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on upper limb function in subacute stroke patients is more effective than using KI-BCI or tDCS alone. Forty-eight subacute strok...

### P52: An Adaptive Hybrid Brain-Computer Interface for Hand Function Rehabilitation of ...
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Motor imagery (MI) based brain computer interface (BCI) has been extensively studied to improve motor recovery for stroke patients by inducing neuroplasticity. However, due to the lower spatial resolution and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of electroencephalograph (EEG), MI based BCI system that involv...

### P53: An EEG-EMG correlation-based brain-computer interface for hand orthosis supporte...
**2019** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Corticomuscular coupling has been investigated for long, to find out the underlying mechanisms behind cortical drives to produce different motor tasks. Although important in rehabilitation perspective, the use of corticomuscular coupling for driving brain-computer interface (BCI)-based neurorehabili...

### P54: Brain-computer interfaces patient preferences: a systematic review.
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
No abstract

### P55: Impact of motor imagery-based brain-computer interface combined with virtual rea...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Brain-computer interface combined with virtual reality (BCI-VR) can reduce the difficulty of motor imagery execution and improve training performance. Few studies have focused on the effects of BCI-VR on attention, executive function, and lower-limb function in stroke.

### P56: Multimodal assessment of a BCI system for stroke rehabilitation integrating moto...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Brain-computer interface (BCI) technology based on motor imagery (MI) or motor attempt (MA) has shown promise in enhancing motor function recovery in stroke patients. This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of BCI-based rehabilitation in improving motor function through multimodal assessment,...

### P57: Addition of a non-immersive virtual reality component to treadmill training to r...
**2016** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Age-associated motor and cognitive deficits increase the risk of falls, a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Because of the significant ramifications of falls, many interventions have been proposed, but few have aimed to prevent falls via an integrated approach targeting both motor and cognitiv...

### P58: Effect of brain-computer interface training based on non-invasive electroencepha...
**2020** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Training with brain-computer interface (BCI) technology in the rehabilitation of patients after a stroke is rapidly developing. Numerous RCT investigated the effects of BCI training (BCIT) on recovery of motor and brain function in patients after stroke.

### P59: Hebbian plasticity induced by temporally coincident BCI enhances post-stroke mot...
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Functional electrical stimulation (FES) can support functional restoration of a paretic limb post-stroke. Hebbian plasticity depends on temporally coinciding pre- and post-synaptic activity. A tight temporal relationship between motor cortical (MC) activity associated with attempted movement and FES...

