# Papers for Analysis: cognitive motor dual task balance fall prevention older adults

Total: 58 papers

### P1: Cortical Engagement Metrics During Reactive Balance Are Associated With Distinct...
**2021** | openalex | Citations: 52
Heightened reliance on the cerebral cortex for postural stability with aging is well-known, yet the cortical mechanisms for balance control, particularly in relation to balance function, remain unclear. Here we aimed to investigate motor cortical activity in relation to the level of balance challeng...

### P2: Determinants of disparities between perceived and physiological risk of falling ...
**2010** | openalex | Citations: 5392
Many elderly people underestimated or overestimated their risk of falling. Such disparities between perceived and physiological fall risk were primarily associated with psychological measures and strongly influenced the probability of falling. Measures of both physiological and perceived fall risk s...

### P3: Rhythm-Motor Dual Task Intervention for Fall Prevention in Healthy Older Adults
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 24
This study aimed to investigate the effects of a rhythm-motor dual task intervention on cognitive and gait control for older adults in relation to fall prevention. Ten healthy older adults participated in a rhythm-motor dual task intervention and 10 participated in the control group. The interventio...

### P4: 2013 ESH/ESC Guidelines for the management of arterial hypertension
**2013** | openalex | Citations: 13622
The ESH/ESC Guidelines represent the views of the ESH and ESC and were arrived at after careful consideration of the available evidence at the time they were written.Health professionals are encouraged to take them fully into account when exercising their clinical judgement. The guidelines do not, h...

### P5: Influence of a visual–verbal Stroop test on standing and walking performance of ...
**2016** | openalex | Citations: 70
No abstract

### P6: Postural orientation and equilibrium: what do we need to know about neural contr...
**2006** | openalex | Citations: 2470
Postural control is no longer considered simply a summation of static reflexes but, rather, a complex skill based on the interaction of dynamic sensorimotor processes. The two main functional goals of postural behaviour are postural orientation and postural equilibrium. Postural orientation involves...

### P7: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes—2013
**2012** | openalex | Citations: 4405
AClear evidence from well-conducted, generalizable RCTs that are adequately powered, including: c Evidence from a well-conducted multicenter trial c Evidence from a meta-analysis that incorporated quality ratings in the analysis Compelling nonexperimental evidence, i.e., "all or none" rule developed...

### P8: COGNITIVE FUNCTION MAY BE IMPORTANT FOR FALL INJURY PREVENTION TRIALS
**2006** | openalex | Citations: 27
To the Editor: We read with interest the recent paper by Lamb et al.1 We found the process of identifying a common outcome data set for fall injury prevention for European trials interesting and informative and congratulate the investigators for their efforts. This work is somewhat reminiscent of th...

### P9: Reduced Cognitive-Motor Interference on Voluntary Balance Control in Older Tai C...
**2015** | openalex | Citations: 14
Background and Purpose: Recent dual-task studies suggest that Tai Chi practitioners displayed better control of standing posture and maintained a quicker response time of postural muscle activation during a stepping down activity. Whether this effect extends to voluntary balance control, specificall...

### P10: World guidelines for falls prevention and management for older adults: a global ...
**2022** | openalex | Citations: 1215
Abstract Background falls and fall-related injuries are common in older adults, have negative effects on functional independence and quality of life and are associated with increased morbidity, mortality and health related costs. Current guidelines are inconsistent, with no up-to-date, globally appl...

### P11: Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of syncope (version 2009): The Task ...
**2009** | openalex | Citations: 2031
Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of syncope (version 2009): the Task Force for the Diagnosis and Management of Syncope of the European Society of Cardiology

### P12: Augmented and Virtual Reality Based Exergames in GAME2AWE for Elderly Fall Preve...
**2022** | openalex | Citations: 10
The GAME2A WE platform aims to provide a versatile tool for elderly fall prevention through exergames that integrate aerobic, strength-enhancing and balance-enhancing exercises. In addition, cognitive improvements are expected due to dual task training activities. In this context, the use of augment...

### P13: 2023 Alzheimer's disease facts and figures
**2023** | openalex | Citations: 2711
Abstract This article describes the public health impact of Alzheimer's disease, including prevalence and incidence, mortality and morbidity, use and costs of care, and the overall impact on family caregivers, the dementia workforce and society. The Special Report examines the patient journey from a...

### P14: Prefrontal-motor and somatosensory-motor cortical network interactions during re...
**2021** | openalex | Citations: 5
Abstract Heightened reliance on the cerebral cortex for postural stability with aging is well-known, yet the cortical dynamics of balance control, particularly in relationship to balance function, is unclear. Here we aimed to investigate motor cortical activity in relationship to the level of balanc...

### P15: International Exercise Recommendations in Older Adults (ICFSR): Expert Consensus...
**2021** | openalex | Citations: 1011
No abstract

### P16: The Balance Evaluation Systems Test (BESTest) to Differentiate Balance Deficits
**2009** | openalex | Citations: 1028
Background Current clinical balance assessment tools do not aim to help therapists identify the underlying postural control systems responsible for poor functional balance. By identifying the disordered systems underlying balance control, therapists can direct specific types of intervention for diff...

### P17: Central role of the brain in stress and adaptation: Links to socioeconomic statu...
**2010** | openalex | Citations: 1617
The brain is the key organ of stress reactivity, coping, and recovery processes. Within the brain, a distributed neural circuitry determines what is threatening and thus stressful to the individual. Instrumental brain systems of this circuitry include the hippocampus, amygdala, and areas of the pref...

### P18: Hepatic encephalopathy in chronic liver disease: 2014 Practice Guideline by the ...
**2014** | openalex | Citations: 1949
The AASLD/EASL Practice Guideline Subcommittee on Hepatic Encephalopathy are: Jayant A. Talwalkar (Chair, AASLD), Hari S. Conjeevaram, Michael Porayko, Raphael B. Merriman, Peter L.M. Jansen, and Fabien Zoulim. This guideline has been approved by the American Association for the Study of Liver Disea...

### P19: A Review of the Effects of Physical Activity and Exercise on Cognitive and Brain...
**2013** | openalex | Citations: 871
Studies supporting the notion that physical activity and exercise can help alleviate the negative impact of age on the body and the mind abound. This literature review provides an overview of important findings in this fast growing research domain. Results from cross-sectional, longitudinal, and int...

### P20: Self-awareness, self-regulation, and self-transcendence (S-ART): a framework for...
**2012** | openalex | Citations: 1251
Mindfulness-as a state, trait, process, type of meditation, and intervention has proven to be beneficial across a diverse group of psychological disorders as well as for general stress reduction. Yet, there remains a lack of clarity in the operationalization of this construct, and underlying mechani...

### P21: Pathophysiology and Treatment of Stroke: Present Status and Future Perspectives
**2020** | openalex | Citations: 1183
Stroke is the second leading cause of death and a major contributor to disability worldwide. The prevalence of stroke is highest in developing countries, with ischemic stroke being the most common type. Considerable progress has been made in our understanding of the pathophysiology of stroke and the...

### P22: The role of cognitive impairment in fall risk among older adults: a systematic r...
**2012** | openalex | Citations: 675
the method used to define cognitive impairment and the type of fall outcome are both important when quantifying risk. There is strong evidence global measures of cognition are associated with serious fall-related injury, though there is no consensus on threshold values. Executive function was also a...

### P23: Executive Control Deficits as a Prodrome to Falls in Healthy Older Adults: A Pro...
**2010** | openalex | Citations: 476
Among healthy older adults, individuals with poorer EF are more prone to falls. Higher-level cognitive functions such as those regulated by the frontal lobes are apparently needed for safe everyday navigation that demands multitasking. Optimal screening, early detection, and treatment of falls shoul...

### P24: Gait disorders in adults and the elderly
**2016** | openalex | Citations: 621
No abstract

### P25: Naturalistic Developmental Behavioral Interventions: Empirically Validated Treat...
**2015** | openalex | Citations: 1272
Earlier autism diagnosis, the importance of early intervention, and development of specific interventions for young children have contributed to the emergence of similar, empirically supported, autism interventions that represent the merging of applied behavioral and developmental sciences. "Natural...

### P26: Multicomponent exercises including muscle power training enhance muscle mass, po...
**2013** | openalex | Citations: 506
No abstract

### P27: Executive Function and Falls in Older Adults: New Findings from a Five-Year Pros...
**2012** | openalex | Citations: 442
These findings demonstrate that among community-living older adults, the risk of future falls was predicted by performance on EF and attention tests conducted 5 years earlier. The present results link falls among older adults to cognition, indicating that screening EF will likely enhance fall risk a...

### P28: Recurrent Falls in Parkinson’s Disease: A Systematic Review
**2013** | openalex | Citations: 524
Most people with Parkinson’s disease (PD) fall and many experience recurrent falls. The aim of this review was to examine the scope of recurrent falls and to identify factors associated with recurrent fallers. A database search for journal articles which reported prospectively collected information ...

### P29: Consensus statement on concussion in sport: the 6th International Conference on ...
**2023** | openalex | Citations: 852
For over two decades, the Concussion in Sport Group has held meetings and developed five international statements on concussion in sport. This 6th statement summarises the processes and outcomes of the 6th International Conference on Concussion in Sport held in Amsterdam on 27–30 October 2022 and sh...

### P30: An Updated Model of Chronic Ankle Instability
**2019** | openalex | Citations: 698
Lateral ankle sprains (LASs) are among the most common injuries incurred during participation in sport and physical activity, and it is estimated that up to 40% of individuals who experience a first-time LAS will develop chronic ankle instability (CAI). Chronic ankle instability is characterized by ...

### P31: Dual-Task Exercise Reduces Cognitive-Motor Interference in Walking and Falls Aft...
**2018** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Background and Purpose- Functional community ambulation requires the ability to perform mobility and cognitive task simultaneously (dual-tasking). This single-blinded randomized controlled study aimed to examine the effects of dual-task exercise in chronic stroke patients. Methods- Eighty-four chron...

### P32: Falls in Cognitively Impaired Older Adults: Implications for Risk Assessment And...
**2018** | pubmed | Citations: ?
To provide an overview of the role of cognition in falls, with potential implications for managing and preventing falls in older adults.

### P33: Effectiveness of dual-task exercise in improving balance and preventing falls am...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
To investigate whether dual-task (DT) training improves dynamic balance and functional mobility and reduces falls and determine how DT training dosage, including exercise duration, intensity, challenge and adherence, affects treatment outcomes in older adults.

### P34: Effects of Virtual Reality vs Conventional Balance Training on Balance and Falls...
**2021** | pubmed | Citations: ?
To assess the efficacy of virtual reality (VR)-based vs conventional balance training on the improvement of balance and reduction of falls in people with multiple sclerosis (PwMS).

### P35: Effectiveness of cognitive-motor dual task training in preventing falls in commu...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Cognitive-motor dual task training has shown great significance in reducing the risk of falls and improving gait and balance function in the older persons, and is increasingly emerging in the field of sports rehabilitation.However, the effects of cognitive-motor dual task training are not well-under...

### P36: Reduced trunk movement control during motor dual-tasking in older adults.
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Older adults have a decreased trunk movement control which is linked to their higher fall risk. While motor/cognitive dual-tasking deteriorates balance and walking in older adults, there is limited understanding on how trunk kinematics and kinetics are affected by dual-tasking in scenarios where fal...

### P37: Assessing acute effects of two motor-cognitive training modalities on cognitive ...
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
The process of aging often accompanies a decline in cognitive function, postural control, and gait stability, consequently increasing the susceptibility to falls among older individuals. In response to these challenges, motor-cognitive training has emerged as a potential intervention to mitigate age...

### P38: Cognitive-motor dual-task interference modulates mediolateral dynamic stability ...
**2018** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Gait asymmetry and dynamic balance impairments observed in post-stroke individuals increase their risk of fall. Moreover, walking while performing a cognitive task (i.e. dual-task) disturbs the control of balance in post-stroke individuals. Here we investigated the mediolateral dynamic stability in ...

### P39: Cognitive-motor dual task induces strategic kinematic adjustments with increased...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Falls among older adults, especially during obstacle crossing, lead to severe outcomes like fractures and higher healthcare costs due to declining cognitive and motor functions. The study aimed to quantify the kinematic adjustments at individual joints and end-points of the pelvis-leg apparatus in o...

### P40: Integrating Cognitive and Motor Dual-task Training to Prevent Fall Risk Among Co...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Falls are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality among older adults, often resulting in severe injuries and a loss of independence. Dual-task training, which integrates cognitive and motor exercises, has emerged as a promising intervention for fall prevention. This study aimed to evaluate the ef...

### P41: New horizons in falls prevention.
**2018** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Falls pose a major threat to the well-being and quality of life of older people. Falls can result in fractures and other injuries, disability and fear and can trigger a decline in physical function and loss of autonomy. This article synthesises recent published findings on fall risk and mobility ass...

### P42: A Systematic Review Exploring the Theories Underlying the Improvement of Balance...
**2022** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Balance impairment causes frequent falls in older adults, and preventing falls remains challenging. Dual-task (DT) training reduces falls by improving balance, but the precise theory is not fully understood. This review aims to explore the theories underlying the effectiveness of DT in improving bal...

### P43: Effect of Dual-Task Motor-Cognitive Training in Preventing Falls in Vulnerable E...
**2022** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Falling is a frequent and major clinical problem among older adults, as well as in patients with chronic cerebrovascular diseases (CVD). At present, sequential (mixed) and simultaneously (dual-task) motor-cognitive trainings are the best approaches to affording patients more autonomy in their everyd...

### P44: Haptic-Based Perception-Empathy Biofeedback Enhances Postural Motor Learning Dur...
**2018** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Falls and fall-induced injuries are major global public health problems, and sensory input impairment in older adults results in significant limitations in feedback-type postural control. A haptic-based biofeedback (BF) system can be used for augmenting somatosensory input in older adults, and the a...

### P45: Comparative analysis of gait domains in middle-aged and older adults under singl...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Dual-task gaits are linked to falls in older individuals, but their underlying structure is unknown compared to single-task gaits. We employed principal component analysis (PCA) to discover independent domains underlying single- and dual-task gaits in cognitively healthy community-dwelling people ov...

### P46: Can dual-task paradigms predict Falls better than single task? - A systematic li...
**2020** | pubmed | Citations: ?
With about one third of adults aged 65 years and older being reported worldwide to fall each year, and an even higher prevalence with advancing age, aged-related falls and the associated disabilities and mortality are a major public health concern. In this context, identification of fall risk in hea...

### P47: A systematic review of interventions conducted in clinical or community settings...
**2014** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Injury due to falls is a major problem among older adults. Decrements in dual-task postural control performance (simultaneously performing two tasks, at least one of which requires postural control) have been associated with an increased risk of falling. Evidence-based interventions that can be used...

### P48: Cognitive functions explain discrete parameters of normal walking and dual-task ...
**2024** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Postural control is dependent on the central nervous system's accurate interpretation of sensory information to formulate and execute adequate motor actions. Research has shown that cognitive functions are associated with both postural control and fall risk, but specific associations are not establi...

### P49: Relationship between balance and dual task walking in the very elderly.
**2016** | pubmed | Citations: ?
To investigate the relationship between balance and dual task performance in adults aged over 80 years, and to analyze possible differences between fallers and non-fallers in dual task performance.

### P50: Feasibility study of dual-task-managing training to improve gait performance of ...
**2015** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Dual task (DT) training is becoming prominent in fall prevention. However, DT training should include task-managing strategies like task switching or task prioritization to be beneficial to improve gait performance under DT conditions. The aim of this pilot study was to evaluate the effect of a task...

### P51: Strength-balance supplemented with computerized cognitive training to improve du...
**2014** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Exercise interventions often do not combine physical and cognitive training. However, this combination is assumed to be more beneficial in improving walking and cognitive functioning compared to isolated cognitive or physical training.

### P52: The effect of a cognitive-motor intervention on voluntary step execution under s...
**2012** | pubmed | Citations: ?
This randomized controlled pilot study aimed to explore whether a cognitive-motor exercise program that combines traditional physical exercise with dance video gaming can improve the voluntary stepping responses of older adults under attention demanding dual task conditions.

### P53: Cognitive-motor exergaming for reducing fall risk in people with chronic stroke:...
**2019** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Dual-task (simultaneous motor and cognitive task) (DT) training via virtual-reality exergaming is known to benefit balance control post-stroke. However, the efficacy of such training on DT balance control (volitional and reactive) and cognitive (executive function and attention) domains associated w...

### P54: Co-creation of a motor-cognitive exercise programme-a qualitative study with old...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
To reduce the risk of falls, tailored interventions including exercise that simultaneously challenges cognition (motor-cognitive) are recommended. However, considerable variation in motor-cognitive approaches exist, and its use in clinical practice is less widespread. This study aimed to explore old...

### P55: Transfer effects of fall training on balance performance and spatiotemporal gait...
**2014** | pubmed | Citations: ?
This study examined transfer effects of fall training on fear of falling (Falls Efficacy Scale-International [FES-I]), balance performance, and spatiotemporal gait characteristics in older adults. Eighteen community-dwelling older adults (ages 65-85) were randomly assigned to an intervention or cont...

### P56: Cognition, Physical Performance, and Fall-Related Mobility Outcomes in Healthy O...
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Aging entails concurrent declines in physical and cognitive domains, contributing to reduced independence, higher fall risk, and lower quality of life. Understanding how motor performance relates to cognition is crucial for prevention in community-dwelling older adults. This cross-sectional study in...

### P57: Association between fall risk and assessments of single-task and dual-task walki...
**2022** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Falling and fall-related injuries are common among community-dwelling individuals with chronic stroke. Falls often occur during dual-task walking scenarios. Accurate fall prediction is critical for formulating effective fall prevention strategies.

### P58: Two Decades of the Walking While Talking Test: A Narrative Review.
**2025** | pubmed | Citations: ?
Early research reported that older adults who stopped walking when they began a conversation were more likely to fall in the future. As a systematic measure of dual-task performance, Verghese and colleagues developed the Walking While Talking (WWT) test, in which a person walks at a normal pace whil...

